# Estatísticas

O desenvolvimento do ASF é sustentado por 3 fatores mais importantes: doações, comentários dos usuários, e estatísticas. Doações influenciam diretamente a nossa vontade de trabalhar no projeto, os comentários dos usuários é sempre bom de ler (especialmente comentários positivos), e estatísticas estão nos dando informações sobre como nosso software é usado, e por quantas pessoas - desse jeito nós podemos saber o que melhorar, o que consertar, e no que focar.

O ASF nas configurações padrões tem a propriedade global `Statistics` ativada. Se você quer ver novas versões sendo lançadas, bugs sendo consertados e novas funções sendo implementadas, você deve considerar deixar essa propriedade ativada, para que possamos usar esses dados para providenciar um melhor software para você (mas não apenas isso). Isto é especialmente importante porque o ASF é **gratis**, e isso é o mínimo que você pode fazer para agradecer - **nos dizer que você está usando o ASF**, já que isso é o que nossas estatísticas atuais estão principalmente fazendo.

Nós mantemos ao mínimo o uso de estatísticas, e toda informação sendo coletada requer uma explicação prática - o que nós coletamos, para que propósito, e como isso deve nos ajudar. Tudo isso pode ser encontrado abaixo.

* * *

## Política de privacidade atual

Enquanto a propriedade `Statistics` está ativada, acontecerá o seguinte:

a) Todas as contas sendo usadas no ASF iram se juntar ao nosso **[grupo da Steam](https://steamcommunity.com/groups/ascfarm)**. Isso é feito por três motivos:

* Isso envia à **você** anúncios do grupo, especialmente versões novas, problemas críticos, problemas da Steam e outras coisas que são importantes para manter a comunidade atualizada (não terá spam não relacionado ao ASF)
* Isso permite que **você** use nosso suporte técnico, fazendo questões, resolvendo problemas, relatando erros ou sugerindo melhorias
* Isso permite que nós vejamos quantas contas da Steam estão sendo usadas pelo ASF

b) If your account is **[unrestricted](https://support.steampowered.com/kb_article.php?ref=3330-IAGK-7663)**, using **[ASF 2FA](https://github.com/JustArchi/ArchiSteamFarm/wiki/Two-factor-authentication#asf-2fa)**, has **[public inventory](https://steamcommunity.com/my/edit/settings)** with at least 100 `MatchableTypes` items in it and includes `SteamTradeMatcher` in `TradingPreferences`, then ASF will periodically communicate with our **[server](https://asf.justarchi.net)**. Actual data consists of unique ASF ID (generated by ASF), and following account-related information:

* Your Steam identificator (in 64-bit form, for generating links)
* Your nickname (for display purposes)
* Your avatar (hash, for display purposes)
* Your **[trading token](https://steamcommunity.com/my/tradeoffers/privacy)** (so people outside of your friendlist can send you trades)
* Your `MatchableTypes` (for display purposes)
* Value of `MatchEverything` in your `TradingPreferences` (for display purposes and sorting)
* Total number of `MatchableTypes` Steam items in your inventory (for display purposes and sorting)
* Total number of unique games that above `MatchableTypes` Steam items are made of (for display purposes and sorting)

ASF will **not** collect any other non-listed-above data without prior important notice in the changelog, and a very good practical reason in the first place. We do not consider anything above to be serious enough, as Steam group in no way identifies the account of using ASF program or not, while our public listing is enabled only if you intentionally enable `SteamTradeMatcher` feature, so when you actually **do** want people to know about that and send you trade offers in the first place.

* * *

## Usage of data

All values specified in point b) are being used for our **Public ASF STM listing** explained below, and only for that.

* * *

### Public ASF STM listing

Our public ASF STM listing is located **[here](https://asf.justarchi.net/STM)** and serves a very simple purpose of allowing all users to quickly match ASF bots for dupes.

Thanks to our listing, every interested ASF and non-ASF user can easily notice bots that are currently active, and send them STM trade offer, which helps both users, **also you**, to get rid of duplicated cards and head further towards badge completion. We wanted to create something like this for a long time, as **everybody** appreciates instant response to trade offers that ASF includes, which can drastically improve efficiency of matching, as well as information about bots availability - until now it was very hard to make a public listing like this, and thanks to ASF it's much easier.

**How it exactly works:**

ASF sends initial data once after logging in, that contains all properties public listing makes use of. Then, every 10 minutes ASF sends one, very tiny "heartbeat" request that notifies our server that the bot is still up and running. If for some reason the heartbeat didn't arrive, for example due to networking issues, then ASF will retry sending it each minute, until server registers it.

This allows our website to record which accounts can be used for matching, as well as if they're still active. Thanks to that, our website can show all ASF 2FA+STM accounts that were active in **last 15 minutes**.

Users are sorted according to their inventories (in descending order) - `MatchableTypes` unique games count, then `MatchableTypes` items count, with addition of `MatchEverything` bots being listed on the top with `Any` banner.

Please note that you will **not** be displayed on the website if you do not meet all of the requirements. ASF won't even bother communicating with our server in this case, so point b) is entirely skipped for you if you didn't intentionally enable `SteamTradeMatcher` in order to help yourself match dupes. Also public listing is compatible only with latest stable version of ASF and might refuse to display outdated bots, especially if they're missing core functionality that can be found only in newer versions.

*The entire concept, together with website integration and ASF reporting is still in beta - it can be improved/changed over time - also removed if we feel like there is not enough interest for this feature.*

* * *

## Opting out

Participating in statistics is **not mandatory**, although highly encouraged for future of the program. We do not judge you, and if you have inner urge of hiding the fact that you're ASF user then you can disable statistics **entirely** by switching `Statistics` global config property to `false`. Disabled statistics make entire module non-operative, and will not do any of actions specified in our privacy policy above.

> Please note that disabling statistics might influence our technical support and other things that are offered to you (for free), such as ASF functionality and the program itself.