# Note

This page is work-in-progress. For translators: you may want to wait a bit (until stable release), as the page is still being written and corrected.

---

### `MatchActively`

`MatchActively` setting is active version of **[`SteamTradeMatcher`](https://github.com/JustArchiNET/ArchiSteamFarm/wiki/Trading#steamtradematcher)** which includes interactive matching in which the bot will send trades to other people. It can work standalone, or together with `SteamTradeMatcher` setting. This feature requires `LicenseID` to be set, as it uses third-party server.

In order to make use of that option, you have a set of requirements to meet. At the minimum you must have **[unrestricted](https://support.steampowered.com/kb_article.php?ref=3330-IAGK-7663)** account, **[ASF 2FA](https://github.com/JustArchiNET/ArchiSteamFarm/wiki/Two-factor-authentication#asf-2fa)** active and at least one valid type in `MatchableTypes`, such as trading cards.

If you meet all of the requirements above, ASF will periodically communicate with our **[public ASF STM listing](https://github.com/JustArchiNET/ArchiSteamFarm/wiki/Remote-communication#public-asf-stm-listing)** in order to actively match bots that are currently available.

- In each round ASF will fetch our inventory and inventory of selected bots that are listed in order to find `MatchableTypes` items that can be matched. If match is found, ASF will send and confirm trade offer automatically.
- Each set (composition of appID, type and rarity of the item) can be matched in a single round only once. This is implemented in order to minimize "items no longer available" and avoid a need to wait for each bot to react before sending all the trades. It's also the primary reason why matching is composed of rounds and not one ongoing process.
- ASF will send no more than `255` items in a single trade, and no more than `5` trades to a single user in a single round. This is imposed by Steam limits, as well as our own load-balancing.

This module is supposed to be transparent. Matching will start in approximately `1` hour since ASF start, and will repeat itself each `6` hours (if needed). `MatchActively` feature is aimed to be used as a long-run, periodical measure to ensure that we're actively heading towards sets completion, but without a short-term time and resources pressure that would happen if this was offered as a command. The target users of this module are primary accounts and "stash" alt accounts, although it can be used by any bot that is not set to `MatchEverything`.

ASF does its best to minimize the amount of requests and pressure generated by using this option, while at the same time maximizing efficiency of matching to the upper limit. The exact algorithm of choosing the bots to match and otherwise organize the whole process, is ASF's implementation detail and can change in regards to feedback, situation and possible future ideas.

The current version of the algorithm makes ASF prioritize `Any` bots first, especially those with better diversity of games that their items are from. When running out of `Any` bots, ASF will move on to the fair ones upon same diversity rule, with those owning excessive number of items further deprioritized due to higher chance of possible inventory-related problems compared to other bots. Regardless of that, ASF will try to match every available bot at least once, to ensure that we're not missing on a possible set progress.

`MatchActively` takes into account bots that you blacklisted from trading through `tbadd` **[command](https://github.com/JustArchiNET/ArchiSteamFarm/wiki/Commands)** and will not attempt to actively match them. This can be used for telling ASF which bots it should never match, even if they'd have potential dupes for us to use.

---

### Why do I need a `LicenseID` to use the plugin? Wasn't `MatchActively` free before?

ASF is, and remains, free and open-source, as it was established at the start of the project back in October 2015. Our program is also entirely non-commercial, we do not earn anything from contributions to it, building or publishing. Over those past 7+ years ASF has received tremendous amount of development, and it's still being improved and enhanced with every monthly stable release mostly by a single person, **[JustArchi](https://github.com/JustArchi)** - with no strings attached. The only funding we receive is from non-obligatory donations that come from our users.

For a very long time, until October 2022, `MatchActively` feature was part of ASF core and available for everyone to use. In October 2022, Valve, the company behind Steam, has put very severe rate limits that rendered previous functionality entirely broken, with no solution available. The feature therefore has been removed from ASF core in version 5.4.1.0.

`MatchActively` was resurrected as part of official `ItemsMatcher` plugin that further enhances ASF with active cards matching functionality. Resurrecting `MatchActively` feature required from us extraordinary amount of work to create ASF backend, entirely new service hosted on a server, with more than a thousand of proxies attached for resolving inventories, all exclusively to allow ASF clients to make use of `MatchActively` like before. Due to the amount of work involved, as well as resources that are not free and require to be paid on monthly basis by us (domain, server, proxies), we've decided to offer this plugin to our sponsors, that is, people that already support ASF project on monthly basis. Our goal isn't to profit from it, but rather, cover the **monthly costs** that are exclusively linked with offering this functionality - that's why we offer it basically for nothing, but we do have to charge a little for it as we can't pay hundreds of dollars from our own pockets just to make it available for you. We hope that you understand.

---

### How can I get an access?

`ItemsMatcher` is offered as part of $5+ sponsor tier on **[JustArchi's GitHub](https://github.com/sponsors/JustArchi)**. Simply become a sponsor of $5 tier (or higher), then click **[here](https://asf-backend.justarchi.net/user/status)** to obtain your `LicenseID`. You'll need to sign in with GitHub for confirming your identity.

The license allows you to send limited amount of requests to the server. $5 tier allows you to use `MatchActively` for one account, which should be suitable for majority of people. $10 tier allows you to use it on three accounts. If you require more resources, **[let us know](mailto:ASF@JustArchi.net)**.

`LicenseID` is made out of 32 hexadecimal characters, such as `f6a0529813f74d119982eb4fe43a9a24`. Simply put it in `LicenseID` property of ASF global config.