# Statistika

ASF development is supported by 3 major things: donations, users feedback, and statistics. Donations directly influence our willings to work on the project, users feedback is always nice to read (especially positive one), while statistics are providing us with the information how our software is used, and by how many people - this way we can know what to improve, what to fix, and what to focus on.

ASF in default settings has `Statistics` global config property enabled. If you want to see new versions coming up, bugs being fixed, and new features getting implemented, you should consider keeping them on, so we can make use of that data in order to provide you with a better software (but not only). This is especially important because ASF is given to you **for free**, and this is the least you can do to say thanks - **tell us that you're using ASF**, as this is what our current statistics are mainly doing. ASF does not collect or make use of any data that could be considered private and/or used against you. We keep the usage of statistics to bare minimum, and every single information being collected requires from us to precisely state it here, together with practical explanation. This gives you full insight into what we collect, for what purpose, and how it's supposed to help. All of that info can be found further below.

* * *

## Current privacy policy

When `Statistics` are active, following things will happen:

1. Account being used in ASF will join our **[Steam group](https://steamcommunity.com/gid/103582791440160998)** upon login. This is done for three reasons:

* It provides **you** with group announcements, especially new versions, critical issues, steam problems and other things that are important to keep community updated (no spam unrelated to ASF guaranteed)
* It allows **you** to use our technical support, by asking questions, resolving problems, reporting issues or suggesting improvements
* It allows us to see how many actual steam accounts are being used by ASF

We consider Steam group as a crucial part in regards to ASF community. This is our main communication channel which we use for all important matters in regards to ASF, especially keeping you up-to-date with the development, potential issues, eventual warnings and all other matters that you should have access to as an user. We do not benefit from maintenance of that group in any way, it's the place dedicated to ASF users and we consider you part of our community. Since membership of the group in no way identifies you as ASF user, we do not consider this to be a problem in terms of privacy.

2. If your account is **[unrestricted](https://support.steampowered.com/kb_article.php?ref=3330-IAGK-7663)**, using **[ASF 2FA](https://github.com/JustArchiNET/ArchiSteamFarm/wiki/Two-factor-authentication#asf-2fa)**, has **[public inventory](https://steamcommunity.com/my/edit/settings)** with at least 100 `MatchableTypes` items in it and you intentionally enabled `SteamTradeMatcher` in your `TradingPreferences`, then ASF will periodically communicate with our **[server](https://asf.justarchi.net)** in order to fulfill the enabled functionality. Actual data consists of unique ASF ID (generated by ASF), and following account-related information:

* Your Steam identificator (in 64-bit form, for generating links)
* Your nickname (for display purposes)
* Your avatar (hash, for display purposes)
* Your **[trading token](https://steamcommunity.com/my/tradeoffers/privacy)** (so people outside of your friendlist can send you trades)
* Your `MatchableTypes` (for display purposes and matching)
* Value of `MatchEverything` in your `TradingPreferences` (for display purposes and matching)
* Total number of `MatchableTypes` Steam items in your inventory (for display purposes and matching)
* Total number of unique games that above `MatchableTypes` Steam items are made of (for display purposes and matching)

ASF will **not** collect any other non-listed-above data without prior important notice in the changelog, and a very good practical reason in the first place. We do not consider anything above to be a serious matter, and we mention it to let you know what precisely ASF does apart of what you configured it to do yourself, so people can better understand our point of view.

* * *

# Usage of data

All values specified in second point are being used for our **Public ASF STM listing**, which is explained below. We do not use any other data for any other purpose.

* * *

## Public ASF STM listing

Our public ASF STM listing is located on **[our website](https://asf.justarchi.net/STM)** and used as a public service for both ASF users that make use of `MatchActively`, as well as ASF and non-ASF users for manual matching.

### How it exactly works

ASF sends initial data once after logging in, that contains all properties public listing makes use of. Then, every 10 minutes ASF sends one, very tiny "heartbeat" request that notifies our server that the bot is still up and running. If for some reason the heartbeat didn't arrive, for example due to networking issues, then ASF will retry sending it each minute, until server registers it.

This allows our website to record which accounts can be used for matching, as well as if they're still active. Thanks to that, our website can show all ASF 2FA+STM accounts that were active in **last 15 minutes**.

Users are sorted according to their inventories (in descending order) - `MatchEverything` bots with `Any` banner that accept all 1:1 trades, then `MatchableTypes` unique games count, and finally `MatchableTypes` items count.

Please note that you will **not** be displayed on the website if you do not meet all of the requirements. ASF won't even bother communicating with our server in this case, so second point is entirely skipped for you if you didn't intentionally enable `SteamTradeMatcher` in order to help yourself match dupes. Also public listing is compatible only with latest stable version of ASF and may refuse to display outdated bots, especially if they're missing core functionality that can be found only in newer versions.

### API

ASF STM listing only accepts ASF bots for time being. There is no way to list third-party bots on our listing for now (as we can't review their code easily and ensure they meet our entire trading logic).

If you're looking for easy way to access our listing in programmatic way, we have a very simple **[/Api/Bots](https://asf.justarchi.net/Api/Bots)** endpoint that you can use. This is also the endpoint that ASF uses internally for `MatchActively` users.

### Notice

*The entire concept, together with website integration and ASF reporting is still in beta - it can be improved/changed over time - also removed if we feel like there is not enough interest for this feature.*

* * *

## Opting out

Participating in statistics is **not mandatory**, although highly encouraged for future of the program. We do not judge you, and if you have inner urge of hiding the fact that you're ASF user then you can disable statistics **entirely** by switching `Statistics` global config property to `false`. Disabled statistics make entire module non-operative, and will not do any of actions specified in our privacy policy above.

Disabling statistics may influence **our technical support, ASF functionality and other things that are offered to you for free**. For example, you can't make use of `MatchActively` without having `Statistics` enabled (as you refuse to communicate with our server for the functionality to work).