# Statistika

ASF developovanje je podržano od 3 značajne stvari: donacija, povratna mišljenja korisnika i statistike. Donacije direktno utiču na našu volju da radimo na određenom projektu, povratna mišljenja korisnika su lijepa za čitanje (posebno pozitivna), dok nam statistike pružaju uvid u informacije o tome kako je naš softver iskorišćen, i koliko ga ljudi koristi - zbog toga znamo šta da poboljšamo, popravimo, i na čemu da se fokusiramo.

ASF u opštim podešavanjima ima omogućen `Statistics` u globalnoj konfiguraciji. Ako želite da vidite šta će biti u novim verzijama, koji su bugovi popravljeni, i koje nove mogućnosti su dodate, onda omogućiti statistike, da bi smo mogli koristiti te podatke da bi omogućili bolji softver (ali ne samo to). Ovo je veoma važno jer je ASF **besplatan**, i ovo može biti način da kažete hvala - **kažete nam kako koristite ASF**, jer je to što trenutna statistika radi. ASF ne prikuplja i ne koristi podatke koji bi mogli biti privatni i/ili korišćeni protiv vas. Korišćenje statistika je minimalno, i svaka informacija koju prikupimo ima tačno objašnjenje zbog čega je potrebna, i ima praktično objašnjenje. Ovo vam pruža kompletan pregled tog što prikupljamo, za koju potrebu, i kako nam pomaže. Sve ove informacije možete pronaći ispod.

* * *

## Trenutna politika privatnosti

Kada su `Statistics` aktivirane, ove stvari će se desiti:

1. Nalog koji koristite pridružiće se našoj ASF **[Steam grupi](https://steamcommunity.com/gid/103582791440160998)** nakon prijavljivanja. Ovo radimo radi tri razloga:

* Ovo **vam** pruža obavlještenja iz grupe, posebno nove verzije, velike probleme, steam probleme i ostale stvari koje su potrebne da održe zajednicu informisanom (ne šaljemo spam i nevažne stvari za ASF)
* Omogućava **vam** da koristite našu tehničku podršku, postavljajući pitanja, rešavajući probleme, prijavljivajući probleme ili predlažući načine da se nešto popravi
* Omogućava nam da vidimo koliko steam naloga koristi ASF

Mi smatramo da je steam grupa važan dio ASF zajednice. Ovo je naš glavni način komunikacije koji koristimo za sve što je važno za ASF, posebno radi redovnog informisanja sa napretkom, potencijalnim problemima, ponekim upozorenjem i svi ostalim stvarima kojima korisnim treba da ima pristup. Mi nemamo nikakav benefit od održavanja ove grupe, to je mjesto posvećeno ASF korisnicima i mi smatramo vam dijelom te zajednice. Pošto članstvo u ovoj grupi ne identifiše vas kao ASF korisnika, mi ne smatramo da je ovo problem vaše privatnosti.

2. If your account is **[unrestricted](https://support.steampowered.com/kb_article.php?ref=3330-IAGK-7663)**, using **[ASF 2FA](https://github.com/JustArchiNET/ArchiSteamFarm/wiki/Two-factor-authentication#asf-2fa)**, has **[public inventory](https://steamcommunity.com/my/edit/settings)** with at least 100 `MatchableTypes` items in it and you intentionally enabled `SteamTradeMatcher` in your `TradingPreferences`, then ASF will periodically communicate with our **[server](https://asf.justarchi.net)** in order to fulfill the enabled functionality. Actual data consists of unique ASF ID (generated by ASF), and following account-related information:

* Your Steam identificator (in 64-bit form, for generating links)
* Your nickname (for display purposes)
* Your avatar (hash, for display purposes)
* Your **[trading token](https://steamcommunity.com/my/tradeoffers/privacy)** (so people outside of your friendlist can send you trades)
* Your `MatchableTypes` (for display purposes and matching)
* Value of `MatchEverything` in your `TradingPreferences` (for display purposes and matching)
* Total number of `MatchableTypes` Steam items in your inventory (for display purposes and matching)
* Total number of unique games that above `MatchableTypes` Steam items are made of (for display purposes and matching)

ASF will **not** collect any other non-listed-above data without prior important notice in the changelog, and a very good practical reason in the first place. We do not consider anything above to be a serious matter, and we mention it to let you know what precisely ASF does apart of what you configured it to do yourself, so people can better understand our point of view.

* * *

# Korišćenje podataka

Sve vrijednosti u drugoj tački se koriste za **Javnu ASF STM listu**, koja je objašnjena ispod. Ne koristimo te podatke za bilo koju drugu svrhu.

* * *

## Javna lista ASF STM botova

Our public ASF STM listing is located on **[our website](https://asf.justarchi.net/STM)** and used as a public service for both ASF users that make use of `MatchActively`, as well as ASF and non-ASF users for manual matching.

### Kako to radi?

ASF sends initial data once after logging in, that contains all properties public listing makes use of. Then, every 10 minutes ASF sends one, very tiny "heartbeat" request that notifies our server that the bot is still up and running. If for some reason the heartbeat didn't arrive, for example due to networking issues, then ASF will retry sending it each minute, until server registers it.

This allows our website to record which accounts can be used for matching, as well as if they're still active. Thanks to that, our website can show all ASF 2FA+STM accounts that were active in **last 15 minutes**.

Users are sorted according to their inventories (in descending order) - `MatchEverything` bots with `Any` banner that accept all 1:1 trades, then `MatchableTypes` unique games count, and finally `MatchableTypes` items count.

Please note that you will **not** be displayed on the website if you do not meet all of the requirements. ASF won't even bother communicating with our server in this case, so second point is entirely skipped for you if you didn't intentionally enable `SteamTradeMatcher` in order to help yourself match dupes. Also public listing is compatible only with latest stable version of ASF and may refuse to display outdated bots, especially if they're missing core functionality that can be found only in newer versions.

### API

ASF STM listing only accepts ASF bots for time being. There is no way to list third-party bots on our listing for now (as we can't review their code easily and ensure they meet our entire trading logic).

If you're looking for easy way to access our listing in programmatic way, we have a very simple **[/Api/Bots](https://asf.justarchi.net/Api/Bots)** endpoint that you can use. This is also the endpoint that ASF uses internally for `MatchActively` users.

### Beleške

*The entire concept, together with website integration and ASF reporting is still in beta - it can be improved/changed over time - also removed if we feel like there is not enough interest for this feature.*

* * *

## Izlaženje iz statistika

Participating in statistics is **not mandatory**, although highly encouraged for future of the program. We do not judge you, and if you have inner urge of hiding the fact that you're ASF user then you can disable statistics **entirely** by switching `Statistics` global config property to `false`. Disabled statistics make entire module non-operative, and will not do any of actions specified in our privacy policy above.

Disabling statistics may influence **our technical support, ASF functionality and other things that are offered to you for free**. For example, you can't make use of `MatchActively` without having `Statistics` enabled (as you refuse to communicate with our server for the functionality to work).